The main aim of this project is to detect the people buried under the avalanches within their golden hour of survival, especially during harsh climatic conditions and rough terrain. This project completes the task time efficiently with the help of AI and ML model by narrowing down the region to be searched. From the narrowed down region, the places to be searched are prioritized with the help of ML processed visual and signal data. These prioritized zones are sent to specific ground control stations for further rescue missions. This involves a step-by-step process as follows:
    Initially, during the occurrence of the avalanche, the area of extent, direction and flow of the avalanche is predicted using Avalanche Simulation model such as D-Infinity Avalanche Runout model with the help of infrasonic seismic waves, terrain and topography, weather data and snowpack analysis. From this we can narrow down the vast region to a specific zone and indicate it as a crucial area for search. To this specific zone, drones and UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) are sent to obtain the visual data and signal data through Beacon devices and Airborne RADAR. These data are separately fed into CNN (Convolutional Neural Network) model and RNN (Recurrent Neural Network) model for image processing and signal processing respectively. Finally, the processed visual and signal data are fed into a fusion model for pinpointing the prioritized regions. The prioritized locations (latitude and longitude) are sent to the respective ground control stations. The data obtained through this process is used to train the ML model for future predictions and to improve the accuracy of the search pattern. 
Use Cases:
    1. This process involves integrating diverse input parameters which helps to predict the victim accurately and time-efficiently within the golden hour. 
    2. As it involves ML model which predicts the location before the rescue mission, it is feasible and cost-effective.
    3. Using different algorithms, multiple victims are mapped simultaneously.
    4. As the climatic conditions and risk factors are known, the rescuers' lives are not endangered.
    5. It has a great scope in the field of research related to environmental predictions and alerts.  
Thus, This model helps to rescue victims accurately and efficiently improve the rescue search method.